document disable monitoring feature (#1632)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/ui-api/observability/prometheus/disable-monitoring/index.md

weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    identifier: uiapi-observability-prometheus-disable
    parent: uiapi-observability-prometheus
user_questions:
  - How can I disable monitoring on my cluster?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2022-11-21
---

In this article you will learn how you can disable monitoring for your cluster.

## Introduction to monitoring

Each cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our monitoring which allow us to provide you with 24/7 support to ensure best quality of service.

Each cluster is monitored by a dedicated Prometheus instance.
This comes by default and storage is reserved for data retention, storage size can be adjusted via [Prometheus Volume Sizing](https://docs.giantswarm.io/ui-api/observability/prometheus/volume-size/) feature.

## Why would I like to disable monitoring?

You might create clusters where you do not need support from our operations team, for instance because you might just want to try something new for a while, or you are running a playground cluster where you know what you are doing.

> You might as well have storage constraints and therefore would like to turn monitoring off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may also have storage constraints and therefore would like to turn monitoring off.
```

## What does disabling monitoring involve?

When you turn off monitoring this has several implication:

- Giant Swarm will not actively provide support on this cluster, as we will not be receiving alerts for this cluster.
- Giant Swarm will not be able to provide detailed investigation, as we will not have monitoring data over time to read from.

But nevertheless we are still here to help and support you in case you need it.

## How to disable monitoring?

To disable monitoring for a cluster you need to label the Cluster CR with:

```yaml
giantswarm.io/monitoring: "false"
```

You can achieve this by running the following command :

```nohighlight

> $ kubectl label cl myclustername giantswarm.io/monitoring=false --overwrite

Reviewer 2: Reagrding `kubectl label cl`. In docs we normally go for explicit rather than short and implicit. I would recommend to use the entire resource name instead of `cl`. Even `cluster` might be ambiguous.

Author: Yes `cluster` is ambiguous and do not point to the correct resource, so the other solution is to use `clusters.cluster.x-k8s.io` does this sounds better to you ?

Reviewer: yeah, +1 on being super unambiguous

Reviewer 2: Yep, let's use `clusters.cluster.x-k8s.io`. That's also what we do in CLI guides in happa btw.

Author: Fixed :heavy_check_mark:

---

> linkTitle: Disable Monitoring

Reviewer 2: Please use sentence case.

```suggestion
linkTitle: Disable monitoring
```

title: Disable Monitoring

> description: A guide explaining how to disable monitoring for a cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: This article explains how to turn off all monitoring for an entire workload cluster.
```

weight: 50
menu:
  main:

>     identifier: uiapi-observability-clustermonitoring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    identifier: uiapi-observability-prometheus-disable
```

    parent: uiapi-observability-prometheus
user_questions:

>   - How can I disable monitoring on my cluster ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I disable monitoring on my cluster?
```

> aliases:
>   - /observability/prometheus/disable-monitoring

Reviewer 2: Aliases are only needed in case you are moving a page to a different URL. They make sure that requests will be redirected.

```suggestion
```

owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2022-11-21
---

> In this document you will learn how you can disable monitoring for you cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document you will learn how you can disable monitoring for your cluster.
```

> In this document you will learn how you can disable monitoring for your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article you will learn how you can disable monitoring for your cluster.
```

## Introduction to monitoring

> Each cluster created on the Giantswarm Platform benefits from our monitoring which allow us to provide you with 24/7 support to ensure best quality of service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each cluster created on the Giant Swarm Platform benefits from our monitoring which allow us to provide you with 24/7 support to ensure best quality of service.
```

@marians do we like 'Giant Swarm Platform'? do we use 'Giant Swarm' just generally in these kinds of cases?

Each cluster is monitored by a dedicated Prometheus instance.
This comes by default and storage is reserved for data retention, storage size can be adjusted via [Prometheus Volume Sizing](https://docs.giantswarm.io/ui-api/observability/prometheus/volume-size/) feature.

> ## Why would I like to disable monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why would I like to disable monitoring?
```

> You might create clusters where you do not need support from our Operations team, for instance because you might just want to try something new for a short amount of time, or you are running a playground cluster where you know what you are doing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might create clusters where you do not need support from our operations team, for instance because you might just want to try something new for a while, or you are running a playground cluster where you know what you are doing.
```

You might as well have storage constraints and therefore would like to turn monitoring off.

> ## What does disabling monitoring involves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does disabling monitoring involve?
```

When you turn off monitoring this has several implication:

> - Giantswarm will not actively provide support on this cluster, as we will not be receiving alerts for this cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Giant Swarm will not actively provide support on this cluster, as we will not be receiving alerts for this cluster.
```

- Giantswarm will not be able to provide detailed investigation, as we will not have monitoring data over time to read from.

But nevertheless we are still here to help and support you in case you need it.

> ## How to disable monitoring ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to disable monitoring?
```

> To disable monitoring for a cluster you need to label the Cluster CR with :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable monitoring for a cluster you need to label the Cluster CR with:
```

```yaml

> giantswarm.io/monitoring: false

Reviewer 2: The boolean type here makes me wonder whether that can work. My understanding is that Kubernetes resource labels MUST be strings. So this would need to be quoted. See also https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/23251

```suggestion
giantswarm.io/monitoring: "false"
```

Author: Yes you are right on this

```

You can achieve this by running the following command :

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```nohighlight
```

> $ k label cl nzr8z giantswarm.io/monitoring=false

Reviewer: and maybe make the ID generic or something?

> $ k label cl nzr8z giantswarm.io/monitoring=false

Reviewer 3: Makes sense to use a generic cluster_id. Should we use `--overwrite` as well?

> $ k label cl nzr8z giantswarm.io/monitoring=false

Reviewer 3: It might make sense to mention that this is easily achieved via gitops

> $ k label cl nzr8z giantswarm.io/monitoring=false

Author: Added --overwrite and made the cluster name generic using `myclustername`.

This cannot be achieve via gitops currently, but we are working on a fix.

cluster.cluster.x-k8s.io/nzr8z labeled
```

> Below is an example of a cluster CR with monitoring disabled :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of a Cluster CR with monitoring disabled:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  generation: 1
  annotations:
    cluster.giantswarm.io/description: Playground test Cluster
  labels:
    giantswarm.io/cluster: myclustername

>     giantswarm.io/monitoring: false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    giantswarm.io/monitoring: "false"
```
